Let's talk about GraphQL.
Why is it so good?
Why do people like it?
Why are we even taking this course?
So GraphQL is what I call a specification
for requesting data and pushing data updates
to and from a server.
So GraphQL is not a library in itself.
It's just a, it's an idea.
It's a whole bunch of ideas in a specification.
And then what happens is that library maintainers
people that build Keystone, people that build Apollo
they go and implement that as a layer on top of a database
which is exactly what Keystone is.
So if we want to be able to create products,
push products, get a list of the product,
get a list of users and their products.
We will use GraphQL for that.
So you're not gonna be able to do this
because you probably don't have the finished version running
but I'm just gonna give you a quick visual
of what GraphQL looks like.
So when I'm in my Keystone here
I can go to the API Explorer.
And this brings up,
sometimes this is referred to as graphical.
This is a sign called a GraphQL Playground, actually.
And you could see I've got all kinds of
interesting stuff going on in here.
I'm just gonna open up a new tab.
Let's bump that up.
So the way that it works is
that we write these things called queries and mutations
to either queries we'll pull data down from the API
and mutations will either create data
or update existing data.
So let's write our first query here.
And I open up curly brackets.
Now GraphQL is its own syntax.
And we're gonna have to get a little bit used to that
but it very much looks like JavaScript objects
just without the actual values.
It's just the properties.
So the query that we want is we can say, oh, look at this.
So the nice thing about GraphQL is it is typed.
Meaning that everything is specified beforehand,
as well as if it's a string or a number
or a relationship to a user or anything like that.
So as you start typing
and you get this really nice auto-complete dropdown
and these are all the queries that we have right here.
So we can take a look here.
Let's take a look at all products.
And then the idea with GraphQL is you can't just say
give me all the products
and it will give you every single field,
every single the name, the image, the price
it'll give you everything about it.
It won't do that actually.
You have to explicitly ask
for the parts of the thing that you want.
So for the product we want the name,
let's, and the description, and maybe the price.
Then when I hit go,
what it does is it brings back to us.
You see how, like I said, it was like,
it looks like an object but without the actual values,
it's just the properties.
What it will do is it will bring back
to you what you asked for,
but with the data filled in on all the properties,
which is really, really nice.
So no longer do you have to create a whole bunch
of different rest end points that specify,
like give me the products with their name and description
or give me the products with all the information.
You just have to ask for the thing that you want
along with what fields you want.
Another kind of cool thing is that there is docs for this.
So we could say like, let's look for all products.
You click that, then it will tell you
all products, it takes these arguments
so you can filter them or search or sort them or order.
We'll certainly get into all of that
when we do searching and things like that.
And then it tells you what are the possible fields.
So you get the ID, the name, the status, the description,
the price, and the photo of each of those.
Okay, let's close that down here.
One kind of other cool thing
is you can do multiple queries in one go.
So we want all the products
but maybe we want all the users.
So it can be the name and the email of that user.
So now I run this
and we get all the products that we wanted
but we also in the same requests
we'll get a list of all of the actual users that we want.
And furthermore, it is relational.
Meaning that if you have data that is related to each other
you can say, give me all the users and give me their cart.
And for each item in their cart
give me the ID and the product, let's run it.
Oh, it's cause product is relationship.
Let's just get the ID.
So a relationship we have here
is a user has a cart which has a relationship
to another piece of data called cart items.
And inside of that cart, it has a relationship
to a product that has a name and a description.
So go ahead and run that.
And now what we've done is we've queried every single user,
their email, what's in their cart
and then for each item in their cart we grab the name
and description and the price of it.
And as long as you set up the relationships
in Keystone or in whatever you're working with,
you're able to write these really slick single queries
that will go and grab just the data that you need
but all in a single request.
So GraphQL is really, really cool.
So that is queries.
There's a whole flip side to that
which is things like mutation.
So a mutation might be as simple
as I need to reset my password.
So you run a mutation called a request reset
and then it return to you something
or updating a specific user.
Here I was updating a password.
And the idea is like, obviously we're gonna hook all this up
to buttons and forms and stuff in our react application
but the whole API is available
via this little playground that you can play with it.
So that's a very high level of what GraphQL is.
We're gonna be using it throughout the rest
of this course and get a little bit more
into the nitty gritty of the different things.
But at a very high level, you need to know that
GraphQL is queries and mutations
that either pull down the data and relational data
that you need or it pushes data to your server
where it then updates or create new products, users,
carte items, things like that.
So that is GraphQL, big fan of it.
It takes a little bit more work to get setup
than a traditional rest API endpoint
but the work is primarily done for us
under the hood with Keystone JS.
And especially if you're taking this course
for the second time
because I have rerecorded it
you'll notice that this is a lot easier
than the way that we did it previously.
And that's just because the ecosystem is maturing
and a lot of the tooling around this
is getting much, much better.
So I'm really excited about it.
Let's jump into the next video and get Keystone going.